bella abzug 
an american lawyer, u.s. repres, social activist and a
leader of the women's movement. abzug join other lead feminist
such as gloria steinem and betti friedan to found the nation women's
polit caucu. 


benjamin britten
a compos, conductor and pianist. he wa a central figur of
twentieth-centuri british classic music, with a rang of work 
includ opera,
other vocal music, orchestr and chamber piec. 

john cage
an american compos, music theorist, writer, and artist. a pioneer of
indeterminaci in music, electroacoust music, and nonstandard us of music
instrument, cage wa on of the lead figur of the post war avant gard.

willa cather
an american author who achiev recognit for her novel of frontier
life on the great plain, in work such as o pioneer, 
my antonia, and the song
of the lark. she wa award the pulitz prize for on of our,
a novel set dure world war i. 

mari curi
a polish and natur french physicist and chemist who conduct
pioneer research on radioact. she wa the first woman to win a nobel
prize, the onli woman to win in two field, and the onli person to win in
multipl scienc

simon de beauvoir
a french writer, intellectu, existentialist philosoph, polit activist,
feminist and social theorist. she did not consid herself a philosoph but
she had a signific influenc on both feminist existenti and feminist
theori.

charl de gaull
a french gener and statesman who led the free french forc dure world war
ii. he later found the french fifth republ and serv as it first
presid.

benjamin disra
a british conserv politician, writer and aristocrat who twice serv as
prime minist. he plai a central role in the creation of the modern
conserv parti, defin it polici and it broad outreach. 


georg eliot
an english novelist, journalist, translat and on of the lead writer of
the victorian era. she is the author of seven novel, includ adam bede,
the mill on the floss, sila marner, middlemarch
and daniel deronda, most of them set in provinci england
and known for their realism and psycholog insight.

rosalind franklin
a british biophysicist and x-rai crystallograph who made critic
contribut to the understand of the fine molecular structur of dna
rna, virus, coal, and graphit. her dna work
achiev the most fame becaus dna plai an essenti role in cell metabol
and genet, and the discoveri of it structur help her co-worker
understand how genet inform is pass from parent to their offspr.

ladi gaga
an american record artist, activist, record produc, businesswoman,
fashion design, philanthropist, and actress. she wa born, rais, and live
in new york citi.

aung san suu kyi 
a burmes opposit politician and chairperson of the nation leagu for
democraci in burma. 

john lewi 
an american politician and civil right leader. he is the us repres
for georgia fifth congression district  and is the dean
of the georgia congression deleg.

naguid mahfouz 
an egyptian writer who won the nobel prize for literatur. he is
regard as on of the first contemporari writer of arab literatur, along
with tawfiq el-hakim, to explor theme of existenti

hilari mantel
an english writer whose work rang in subject from person memoir and
short stori to histor fiction and essai. she ha twice been award the
booker prize.

barbara mcclintock
an american scientist and on of the world's most distinguish
cytogeneticist, the nobel laureat in physiolog or medicin. mcclintock
receiv her phd in botani from cornel univers. there she start
her career as the leader in the develop of maiz cytogenet, the focu
of her research for the rest of her life. 

toni morrison 
an american novelist, editor, and professor. her novel ar known for their
epic theme, vivid dialogu, and richli detail charact. among her best
known novel ar the bluest ey, sula, song of solomon and belov. 

jean perrin 
a french physicist who, in hi studi of the brownian motion of minut
particl suspend in liquid, verifi albert einstein’s explan of thi
phenomenon and therebi confirm the atom natur of matter.

segolen royal
a french politician. she is the presid of the poitou charent region
council, a former member of the nation assembl, a former govern
minist, and a promin member of the french socialist parti.

erik sati
a french compos and pianist. sati wa a colour figur in the earli 
twentieth centuri parisian avant gard. hi work wa a precursor to later 
artist
movement such as minim, repetit music, and the theatr of the absurd.

sin itiro tomonaga
a japanes physicist, influenti in the develop of quantum
electrodynam, work for which he wa jointli award the nobel prize in
physic along with richard feynman and julian schwinger.

